Refactoring Service Discovery Concept text (#215)
stackabletech/documentation: modules/concepts/pages/service_discovery.adoc

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: simple-zk
data:
  ZOOKEEPER: simple-zk-server-default-0.simple-zk-server-default.default.svc.cluster.local:2181,simple-zk-server-default-1.simple-zk-server-default.default.svc.cluster.local:2181
----

The information needed to connect can be a string like above, for example a JDBC connect string: `jdbc:postgresql://localhost:12345`. But a ConfigMap can also contain multiple configuration files which can then be mounted into a client Pod. This is the case for xref:hdfs::discovery.adoc[HDFS], where the `core-site.xml` and `hdfs-site.xml` files are put into the discovery ConfigMap.

== Usage of the service discovery ConfigMap

The ConfigMap is used by Stackable operators to connect products together, but can also be used by the user to retrieve connection information to connect to product instances. The operators consume only the ConfigMap, so it is also possible to create a ConfigMap by hand for a product instance that is not operated by a Stackable operator. These different usage scenarios are explained below.

> === Stackable internal usage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Service discovery within Stackable
```

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: hdfs.stackable.tech/v1alpha1
kind: HdfsCluster
metadata:
  name: simple-hdfs
spec:
  ...
----
The HDFS instance is referenced to by name in HBase cluster spec in the field `hdfsConfigMapName`:

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: hbase.stackable.tech/v1alpha1
kind: HbaseCluster
metadata:
  name: simple-hbase
spec:
  hdfsConfigMapName: simple-hdfs
  ...
----

This is a common pattern across the platform. For example the DruidCluster spec contains a field `zookeeperConfigMapName` and the TrinoCluster spec contains a field `hiveConfigMapName` to connect Druid to ZooKeeper and Trino to Hive respectively.

=== Have third-party software depend on Stackable instances

You can connect your own products to Stackable-operated product instances. How exactly you do this depends heavily on the application you want to connect.

In general, use the name of the product instance to retrieve the ConfigMap and use the information in there to connect your own service. You can find links to these documentation pages below in the <<whats-next>> section.

> === Use manually operated instances as dependencies to Stackable operated instances

Reviewer: I think "manually" is too much of an assumption. There is automation outside Stackable too :-)
```suggestion
=== Discovering services outside Stackable
```

= Service discovery

Several products deployed by the Stackable platform depend on other (Stackable) products. This could be a product that requires an external database, high availability support or synchronization.

In order to programmatically resolve this dependency, the Stackable platform uses _service discovery_. A Stackable operator is aware of interfaces and connections that have to be exposed and may be consumed by other operators to configure their products. These interfaces or connections are usually referred to as _connection string_. The operator publishes these connection strings in a ConfigMap to be mounted by other products.

== Architecture

The Operator that provides service discovery writes a `ConfigMap` with all necessary information about its exposed services. Each service has its own entry in the `ConfigMap` as can be seen with the `ZOOKEEPER` entry below:

image::service_discovery_arch.png[Service Discovery]

> == Example

Reviewer: Since this is not a full copy&pastable example, I would name this section something like "Usecase: Zookeeper discovery" or similar

= Service discovery

> Most products on the Stackable platform (and possibly other software in your stack) require other software to run or to be made useful -- i.e. an analytics tool will delegate the storing of data to other applications and instead interface with various data storage solutions. The Stackable platform uses _service discovery_ to enable users and operators to easily connect different products together. There are three types of uses for the service discovery mechanism:

Reviewer: To me this sounds a bit clearer:
```suggestion
Products on the Stackable platform can, and in some cases must be connected with each other to run correctly. Some products are fundamental to the platform while others depend on them. For example, a NiFi cluster requires a ZooKeeper connection to run in distributed mode. Other products can optionally be connected with each other for better data flow. For example Trino does not store the query data  it's self, instead it interfaces with other applications to get access to it. The Stackable platform uses _service discovery_ to enable users and operators to easily connect different products together. There are three types of uses for the service discovery mechanism:
```

> * A Stackable operated product instance requires a connection to another product to run. For example: NiFi requires a ZooKeeper to run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Interoperability between products on the Stackable platform.
```

> * You want to connect non-Stackable operated software to a Stackable operated product instance. For example: You wrote your own analytics tool and want to read data from Trino.

Reviewer: I don't understand the difference between the 2nd and 3rd use cases.

Author: Okay, I'll have to clarify it then. One is, you're *depending* on a stackable service and want to connect to it (i.e. want to load data from druid). The other is you are already operating a service that you want the stackable service to *depend on*. it's two different directions. Someone is already running ZK or HDFS and wants druid to use that instance, instead of spinning up a stackable instance of ZK or HDFS. in the first case you *read* the ConfigMap, in the second case you have to *provide* a ConfigMap for your own instance that you want the stackable druid to use.

* You want to offer a product instance not operated with a Stackable operator as a dependency to Stackable operated product instances. For example: You already run a Druid cluster and want to connect it to a Superset instance operated with a Stackable operator.

This page explains the general mechanism of service discovery and how this mechanism works in the contexts described above.

== The service discovery ConfigMap

In the Stackable platform, every product instance is defined by a resource with a name, for example a ZooKeeperCluster:

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: zookeeper.stackable.tech/v1alpha1
kind: ZookeeperCluster
metadata:
  name: simple-zk
spec:
  ...
----

> The operator reads the resource and creates the necessary pods and services to get the instance running. The operator is aware of the interfaces and connections that may be consumed by other products and it also knows all the details of the actual running processes.

Reviewer: Specify which operator is meant at least once.

```suggestion
The Zookeeper operator reads the resource and creates the necessary pods and services to get the instance running. It is aware of the interfaces and connections that may be consumed by other products and it also knows all the details of the actual running processes.
```

Author: I tried to keep it generic :/ But it's clearer that way.

The operator creates a ConfigMap with the same name as the product instance, in the same namespace. Inside of the ConfigMap is information about how to connect to the product instance. For example for a ZooKeeper cluster named simple-zk the Stackable ZooKeeper operator creates a ConfigMap similar to this:

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: simple-zk
data:
  ZOOKEEPER: simple-zk-server-default-0.simple-zk-server-default.default.svc.cluster.local:2181,simple-zk-server-default-1.simple-zk-server-default.default.svc.cluster.local:2181
----

> The information needed to connect can be a string like above, for example a JDBC connect string: `jdbc:postgresql://localhost:12345`. But a ConfigMap can also contain whole configuration files which can then be mounted into a Pod. This is the case for xref:hdfs::discovery.adoc[HDFS], where the `core-site.xml` and `hdfs-site.xml` files are put into the discovery ConfigMap.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The information needed to connect can be a string like above, for example a JDBC connect string: `jdbc:postgresql://localhost:12345`. But a ConfigMap can also contain multiple configuration files which can then be mounted into a client Pod. This is the case for xref:hdfs::discovery.adoc[HDFS], where the `core-site.xml` and `hdfs-site.xml` files are put into the discovery ConfigMap.
```

> *The ConfigMap always has the same name as cluster resource.* Which allows Stackable operators as well as users to look up service connection information simply by the name of the product instance they want to connect to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: The discovery ConfigMap has the same name as cluster resource it describes. This allows Stackable operators as well as users to look up service connection information simply by the name of the product instance they want to connect to.
```
